In this class we will analyze one
of the most exciting and complex
companies that exist.
Today what we're going to do is, let's
look at Amazon's major strategic
moves throughout its history and
it'll help us understand much more
what Amazon is, something that's
not easy, and how it's come
to be what it is today.
In later classes, we will
now look at Amazon in more
detail from different
perspectives, such as its
competitive advantage
or its growth strategy.
I always say that to understand a
company you have to know the founder,
you have to know the leader,
in this case it is Jeff Bezos, because
if we analyze how Jeff Bezos is,
from that analysis it is much
easier to identify what have
been the keys to Amazon's success.
Well, Jeff Bezos is a dreamer, he
is a very brave person who has always
proven to be able to challenge
the status quo, and as an
example, as an anecdote, his
latest project Blue Origin is
designing a rocket to make
space travel.
Well, let's go back to the year
94-95, let's go back to the first
steps or the origins of Amazon.
Here we have Jeff Bezos working
at Wall Street, he provided
computer services to a company at
Wall Street and at some point it
seems that a report fell into his
hands that vaticinated that
the growth of the digital channel,
the internet, the e-commerce would
be exaggerated, and at that
time he decided that he would
not let that train pass, which
would take advantage
of that opportunity.
So I decided to start
an e-commerce.
E-commerce of what?
Because you have in mind that at that
time still the electronic
sale, the sale through the internet
almost did not exist, was something
with very much uncertainty.
The categories that seemed
to be more successful and
faster were mostly books
and music.
Why is it?
Because it is a very standardized
product with very high margins
and that in principle seemed
to give little fear to buy through
the internet.
Now everything has been bought through
the internet, but at that time it was
unthinkable to buy, for example,
clothes or food or something like
that.
Well, total, that Jeff Bezos
decided to set up an e-commerce,
competing with traditional
retailers of physical offline
bookstore like it was
mainly Barnes & Noble.
This was not the first e-commerce
book that existed, there were already
some, a couple of them.
Amazon has quickly outperformed
its competition.
In the first 12 months,
he was present in 40 countries
and billed about $100,
000 a month.
Conclusion of this?
Two conclusions are.
One, that international
expansion was immediate, that their
vocation was always to be global and
two, that quickly valid that there
was demand, that people were
willing to buy books over the
internet.
Well, the first years are passing,
we are in the year 98 and we
already have the company of
a certain size with a turnover
of $148 million annually.
Amazon was the world leader
in selling books over
the internet.
However, Bezos's vision
went far beyond.
As we have said many times, a
company's strategy should start
with a vision.
What is the vision of Amazon?
It is the largest store in the world.
A store where you can
find and buy anything.
Anything any.
And they have succeeded.
And how did they it?
Well, then if you part that in
the year 98 you have an e-book
trade, what is it that you have
to do to become the world's
largest store?
It is important
to systematically
add new categories.
And they are doing so until today.
They are constantly
adding new categories.
The first was music and music.
It was easy to incorporate toys,
home, video games, fashion,
food, furniture.
And I recently incorporated
subscription services, such as
streaming music or a movie service
similar to what Netflix
might have.
What is Amazon today?
It is the largest store in the world.
I think that's their main
competitive advantage.
The main competitive advantage
of Amazon is that you can go
in and buy anything.
The next day, you have it at your door.
Let's look at all the major
strategic moves of Amazon.
It is vertical integration.
We will put ourselves in a situation.
Amazon quickly became the most
book-selling company in the
world.
It acquired a huge dominant
position in this sector in
very few years.
This has created a lot of tension.
Why did it generate attempts
to establish new aggressive conditions
with publishers?
Publishers depended on Amazon and
Amazon depended on publishers.
What is what happens?
Amazon is now integrating backwards
and creating its own
Amazon Publishing.
Enter the publisher's business.
It becomes your own provider.
And within Amazon there is content or
books that are from Amazon
Publishing and other publishers.
But this move allows you to
enter the publishing business
with huge competitive advantages.
It allows you to increase the
margins of your business because
you are left with the
corresponding margins that were
previously created by publishers.
And most importantly, it
is a weakness for publishers.
Amazon is no longer as dependent
on publishers as it used to be.
That makes publishing companies
lose has allowed Amazon to have
much greater control over the
sector and greatly strengthen
its competitive advantage.
Another key strategic
move for Amazon was that in the
year 2000 it went from being a
pure e-commerce to a marketplace.
Amazon Marketplace is born.
What does this mean?
Until 2000, you could only
buy products from Amazon.
Products that Amazon becomes a
platform, in a marketplace
where you can buy products
in some cases are from Amazon
but there are also third-party
companies that sell through
Amazon.
As there are third-party companies
that sell through eBay for
example or Alibaba that are
pure marketplace that connect
supply and demand.
Well since the birth of Amazon
Marketplace sales, the percentage
of third-party sales that
are not direct from Amazon
has been growing
and is currently 45 percent.
I'll tell you a little
bit about how it works,
right?
On Amazon as I said you can buy
products from Amazon and on the
page when you see an offer because
you can see it here because it
says sold and sent by Amazon is
worth it?
But you can also buy products
that are not from Amazon that are from
other companies and in this case
there are two options in some cases
Amazon takes care of logistics,
takes care of stock, it is called
Fulfilled by Amazon and we have
it here that says sold by the
name of the seller but managed
by Amazon is it?
But it is also the case that it
is the third company the seller who
takes care of absolutely everything.
Not only does it sell it but it also
manages logistics in this case Amazon does
not provide you with the logistics
service, right?
And it costs less.
And here we see it sold and shipped
by the seller's name Another very
important evolution in the
business model is the
incorporation of subscription
services mainly is Amazon
Prime.
Until the birth of Amazon
Prime, Amazon only made money
for each transaction
that was made within the
e-commerce or within the marketplace.
I was paying a percentage of that sale.
The subscription model is very different
from the Amazon Prime model,
which won a percentage
of one year.
And in the case of Amazon Prime,
the annual model to benefit from
a number of services.
They have better conditions than
the rest in terms of distribution,
in terms of logistics services
but also have access to
Amazon Prime Video, which is
a movie and series service similar
to Netflix or HBO for example.
Amazon Prime is a success.
It currently has around 65 million
subscribers and generates
sales of $6.5 billion.
But the important thing is to understand
the difference in the business model.
The benefits of a subscription
model system are that they are
recurring income.
You pay for those 65 million
subscribers, you pay for them
every month and you make
those customers become much
more loyal to Amazon because
they are getting more and more
value-added services.
The movies, music, deliver
in better conditions than
the rest, etc.
You are getting more loyal to
your customers, which also increases
your expenses.
Amazon Prime customers
are also buying more
products.
In addition to paying the fee, you buy
more products.
By the way, and in line with
the incorporation of subscription
services Amazon has created Music
Unlimited which is a streaming
music service similar to Spotify.
Amazon's most successful
diversification
growth strategy is
undoubtedly the one we'll
see now.
Amazon is entering the cloud
service through Amazon
Web Services.
You think Amazon had developed
a huge internal infrastructure
to support its internal
operations.
But what did you do is start selling
those services to third companies,
right?
by a monthly end.
Amazon Web Services already
earns more than $12 billion
a year.
And not just that, which is most important.
74% of Amazon's total profit
comes from Amazon Web Services.
Amazon is now much more than
the world's largest store.
The main growth engine
is Amazon Web Services.
But Amazon's diversification
strategy really doesn't
end here.
What Amazon has done is for all
these years and it continues
to permanently get into that
are more or less away from
their traditional business.
Amazon is a hardware
manufacturer.
Kindle is one of the biggest
manufacturers of tablets, but
it also produces Kindle tablets.
He tried it with mobile phones, with
smartphones.
It is an online supermarket
through Amazon Fresh.
Not just online but offline because you've
bought Whole Foods.
As we see the entry into offline
retail, offline food distribution
is a business that is more
away from its traditional
business.
He is also a fashion maker through
his brand Find with which he
wants to compete with large
groups such as Gap, H&M or
Inditex.
Over the years, he has been
buying many companies.
The most well-known probably because
Zapos or Alexa with which it is having
recently a lot of success.
As we can see, it is a large group
that is present in very
many sectors with very different.
And finally I will explain the
key that Amazon has been covered
for all these years to enter
so many, putting in Y is the
policy of so extreme reinvestment
it has had, which has
even generated a lot of
distrust in the markets.
I remember a few years ago people
were asked if Amazon would
be profitable at some point because
it didn't generate any profits.
And why?
Bezos has always decided to reinvest
absolutely all the margins
that were generated.
What I wanted was to always be
ahead, to innovate permanently
at any cost, regardless
of whether it was not efficient.
Of course, when you enter, when
you diversify, when you enter
new, at first those demand
a lot of treasury and
you are not efficient.
That is why the curve
with the evolution of sales
and net profits has this unique
shape.
And the sales have been shot.
Fijaros has sold $136 billion.
The benefits have been
very planned.
This never happens.
And the difference between the
two is mainly due to what I'm
talking about, the huge
reinvestment that has been made
and that's the key to what Amazon
is today.